SURFACE CONCEPT SEED (key: 98d822b6; mode: operate; source: api; approved pool: c3b204a1eed6; 306/564 human-approved; rerun with --scope surface --mode operate --from 98d822b6 --candidate-count 7 to reproduce this roll against this catalog revision)
DEALT INDICES: 7, 4, 2 (index 7 leads)
  After ordering the task's grounded structural candidates by resonance,
  deal candidates 7, 4, 2 of your own grounded list to the
  table; index 7 leads, and the deal never points at a challenger.
  The deal is the roll, not a suggestion: the dice decide which structures
  reach the user, so the ranking rut stays broken while the user still gets a
  real choice, and the full ranked list stays yours. In an attended run,
  present the three dealt structures as full cards of equal salience, the
  lead carrying kicker THE ROLL, with steer and re-roll, and let the user
  lock one in; the world is already settled, so this choice is composition.
  Visualize every dealt card: with image generation available and a
  comp-led default (.impeccable/config.json buildPath; the page toggle
  handles the exception), declare a comp per card and generate after
  serving, lead first; otherwise author each card's wireframe field (see
  serve-question --schema) and the page draws the schematic. Carry the
  recorded default in the payload as buildPath with toggle: true. Locking a card
  approves its comp: a surface round that put three visualized structures on
  the table replaces the three-option comp round in visualize.md. Re-roll
  yourself only when every dealt structure fails audience identification or
  product clarity on named factual grounds.
  The assignment exists to refuse the model's ranking rut, never to outrank
  the user or the brief. Never expose assignment metadata in user-facing labels.
CHALLENGERS:
  1. a crt oscilloscope on a signal bench, phosphor trace riding an etched graticule while detented knobs set channel, timebase, and trigger
     SOURCE ID: scientific-notation-oscilloscope-signal-bench
     CREATIVE SPARK: You clip the probe to the pin and a green line snaps out of the noise; a nudge of the trigger knob and the waveform stands still, breathing in phosphor over the etched grid, ten divisions wide, every one meaning something.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: phosphor green blazing on near-black glass, graticule gray etched beneath, a second channel in dimmer trace; amber readouts for armed and warning states
       - Type/composition: condensed instrument caps on knob skirts and bezels, glowing seven-segment readouts; everything on screen is measured against the ten-division graticule
       - Topology/navigation: one screen, many signals; you travel by timebase and vertical scale, and channels overlay in the same graticule space rather than separate views
       - Controls/state: detented knobs set scale and trigger level; an untriggered trace rolls free, a triggered one locks still, and freeze holds the waveform for cursors
       - Responsive/motion: the graticule stays square while readouts drop below on narrow screens; the sweep is continuous
     WEB LEVERAGE: canvas draws the persistent phosphor trace from live Web Audio or sensor input, with pointer-dragged trigger level and keyboard-stepped cursors
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/scientific-notation-oscilloscope-signal-bench.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/scientific-notation-oscilloscope-signal-bench-hero.webp
  2. a HyperCard shoebox stack, where black-and-white cards link through buttons anyone can paint and the tool for reading is also the tool for making
     SOURCE ID: medium-native-hypercard-stack-shoebox
     CREATIVE SPARK: A shoebox of black-and-white cards where clicking a hand-painted button flips you somewhere the author felt you should go next, and the paint tools are one menu away.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: one-bit black on white with stipple-dither grays and no color anywhere, the pressed button inverting to solid black as its active state
       - Type/composition: bold Chicago-style pixel menus over Geneva-style body text, cards composing as fixed rectangles with hand-drawn borders and painted buttons
       - Topology/navigation: space is a stack of cards linked by visible buttons; back retraces your exact trail through them.
       - Controls/state: every card is editable in place; browse and author are two modes of the same object.
       - Responsive/motion: cards keep fixed proportions and dissolve between each other
     WEB LEVERAGE: History API and deep links make every card addressable, while in-place editing keeps reader and author one keypress apart.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/medium-native-hypercard-stack-shoebox.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/medium-native-hypercard-stack-shoebox-hero.webp
  3. a metro screen of flat tiles and giant lowercase, headlines cropped off the canvas edge, color fields as content, chrome deleted so the type itself is the interface
     SOURCE ID: digital-design-canon-metro-typographic-tiles
     CREATIVE SPARK: you drag the panorama and the giant word music slides its cropped tail into view, a tile flips over in your peripheral vision with a new photo, everything black and cyan and nothing on screen that is not a word or a color
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: flat cyan, magenta, or lime tiles on a pure black ground, zero gradients or bevels, white segoe as ink, one chosen accent color owns every live state
       - Type/composition: giant light-weight lowercase headlines cropped off the right edge, type ramped from caption to poster size, left-aligned on a strict grid of square tiles
       - Topology/navigation: one wide panorama slides behind the viewport, pivot headers peek in from the next pane to promise more, tiles are the only doors
       - Controls/state: tiles tilt toward the finger on press, live tiles flip to show fresh data, selection floods a tile with the accent color, no borders or button chrome
       - Responsive/motion: the panorama collapses to a single tile column on narrow screens, entrances glide in from the edge with type leading
     WEB LEVERAGE: scroll-snap drives the panoramic panes; css 3d transforms tilt tiles on press and flip the live ones
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/digital-design-canon-metro-typographic-tiles.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/digital-design-canon-metro-typographic-tiles-hero.webp
  4. a variety-show telop field, where hand-placed multicolor outlined captions size themselves to the emotion of speech and turn the frame into a live comic
     SOURCE ID: variety-telop-caption-field
     CREATIVE SPARK: A gasp lands as fat yellow katakana with a red outline tilted eight degrees; the follow-up mutter sits tiny and gray in the corner, and both are gone before the laugh ends.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: high-chroma fills with contrast outlines and drop shadows built for legibility over anything; each emotional register owns a color family
       - Type/composition: free placement keyed to the speaker, scale mapped to intensity, never a fixed lower-third band; rotation is punctuation
       - Topology/navigation: Move by speaker, by beat, and by reaction.
       - Controls/state: Land, hold, and vanish; emphasis states change scale and outline weight, not position.
       - Responsive/motion: Captions enter with a single snap and leave clean; reduced motion pins them for the full beat.
     WEB LEVERAGE: A caption layer of absolutely-placed outlined type driven by content beats, fully readable in sequence
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/variety-telop-caption-field.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/variety-telop-caption-field-hero.webp
  5. a single square of vermilion washi becoming an orizuru crane through thirty-two deliberate folds, where one uncut sheet passes from flat geometry to beak, wings, hollow body, and a balanced standing silhouette
     SOURCE ID: paper-folds-pleats-deployable-orizuru-crane-sequence
     CREATIVE SPARK: The red square closes into a small diamond, opens into a long-necked bird, and with one final pull spreads two crisp wings that still carry every earlier crease.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: vermilion washi as ground with visible kozo fiber, crease lines in faded fold-white, one gold dot marking the active step, notes in sumi black ink
       - Type/composition: quiet humanist sans beside kanji step names, folds numbered one to thirty-two in a strict margin column, diagrams square and centered like the uncut sheet
       - Topology/navigation: Connect face, edge, mountain crease, valley crease, preliminary base, bird base, flap, and finished crane as one continuous sheet.
       - Controls/state: Fold, unfold, rotate, reverse, and replay with flat, creased, collapsed, based, locked, finished, and recoverable states.
       - Responsive/motion: Pair the active crease pattern with one authored spatial view and provide discrete fold states under
     WEB LEVERAGE: Constraint-aware direct manipulation can prevent impossible folds, synchronize the crease pattern with the spatial crane, and deep-link any recoverable step for teaching or return.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/paper-folds-pleats-deployable-orizuru-crane-sequence.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/paper-folds-pleats-deployable-orizuru-crane-sequence-hero.webp
  6. an alphabet storm, where letters condense into words, break into weather, and reshape the landscape according to grammar
     SOURCE ID: dream-surreal-impossible-worlds-alphabet-storm
     CREATIVE SPARK: Black letters gather into CLOUD, burst into rain, and carve the word RIVER across white ground; changing one vowel turns the current into a field of silver ravens.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: paper white ground, storm-letter black as both body ink and weather mass, one silver flash for words mid-transformation, rain gray for spent grammar
       - Type/composition: a single monumental grotesk behaving as matter, kerning loosening into wind, words breaking across lines as literal weather fronts on an open field
       - Topology/navigation: Travel between letter fronts, word formations, grammatical forces, and the landscapes they produce.
       - Controls/state: Type, split, conjugate, and recombine language while physical consequences remain reversible.
       - Responsive/motion: Use one word-weather event per phone viewport and preserve readable text throughout transformation.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Text parsing, procedural particles, and semantic rules turn typed language into deterministic weather with accessible narrative descriptions.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/dream-surreal-impossible-worlds-alphabet-storm.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/dream-surreal-impossible-worlds-alphabet-storm-hero.webp
A challenger wins only when its fused result beats the grounded list on
  audience identification and product clarity. It may change task topology or
  interaction, but never the committed visual identity.
When you can view images, open the QUALITY BAR board and hero for any
challenger you weigh seriously and for the world you build. They exist as a
craft bar, the finish level and commitment the build is expected to reach,
never as a mockup to copy; your surface serves this product, not that render.
PRODUCT.md and DESIGN.md constrain every surface candidate's identity
vocabulary; they do not cancel task-level composition. The seed never
authorizes a new palette, type system, material world, or unfamiliar control
behavior.
The CREATIVE SPARK is a complete visual system, not a theme or decorative
reference. Translate every supplied system rule into the product: palette and
material, type and composition, topology, controls and states, and adaptation.
Keep the source's visible character, scale, rhythm, and interaction instead of
reducing vivid grammar to generic nouns. When the source is already a credible
interface language, commit to it across navigation, content, controls, and
states. Otherwise keep a literal carrier only when it becomes functional.
Ambitious motion, spatial media, or interaction is welcome when it strengthens
the product without weakening semantics, performance, or fallback behavior.
TELEMETRY: after the user's choice resolves, rerun this script once with
  --kind <assigned|pick|challenger|canon> --from 98d822b6 --scope surface --mode operate,
  adding --chosen <challenger-id> when a dealt challenger won and keeping
  --register <safer|bolder> when the resolved round came from a steered hand.
  One ping per resolved attended round. The ping is anonymous, the card kind
  plus the catalog id when one won; your grounded candidates' names never
  leave the machine, and the ping is skipped automatically when DO_NOT_TRACK
  or IMPECCABLE_NO_TELEMETRY is set.
A user- or brief-pinned decision beats the roll, always.
DEALT INDICES (restated for truncated readers): 7, 4, 2; index
7 leads. Present all three dealt structures; seed key 98d822b6.
